# Flashing Firmware

We have reached the last step in getting your keyboard running. The next section will only cover quality-of-life changes. This is the final required section and is also the easiest. This is the moment when your keyboard will finally come to life.

If you are familiar with ZMK and would like to modify the firmware, you can fork the [ZMK Config for this keyboard](https://github.com/Musab-Hassan/zmk-config-aurora/) and build your own firmware to flash. If you added per-key LEDs during the soldering stage, you must create your own configuration to get them working, as I have not added support for them yet.

## Download the Firmware Files

If you would like to use the pre-built firmware, follow these steps to download it:

1. Go to the [Actions tab of the ZMK-config-aurora repo](https://github.com/Musab-Hassan/zmk-config-aurora/actions/workflows/build.yml).
2. Click on the latest run that has a green checkmark.
3. Scroll down to **Artifacts** and download the firmware zip file.
4. Extract the firmware files and store them somewhere you can easily find them.

## Flash Firmware

Once you have the firmware downloaded, you can start flashing the firmware onto each of the three devices (right side, left side, dongle). When flashing the firmware, keep both sides of the keyboard off (battery switch off). They can still receive power from the USB port even when off, as the switch only disconnects the battery.

To flash the firmware:

1. Connect one of the three devices to your computer using a USB-C cable.
2. Press the reset button twice (located above the power switch).
3. The microcontroller should mount as a flash drive on your computer. Drag the correct firmware file for that device onto the microcontroller.
4. The microcontroller should disconnect and reconnect with the "Aurora" keyboard name.
5. Repeat these steps for the other two devices.

Once all three devices are flashed, disconnect them all and connect the dongle to your computer with a USB-C cable. Once the dongle is connected, turn on both keyboard devices, and you should now have a functional keyboard!

## Final Checks

As a final check, ensure all your keys work properly by using a [Key Tester](https://en.key-test.ru/) and pressing every key. Also, turn and press the encoder knob to see if the volume changes properly.

If a key does not register, try pressing the switch in further with some pressure, as it might not be seated properly in the hotswap socket. If it still does not work, the diode for that key might not be connected properly and may need to be resoldered.

If everything else looks good, your Aurora keyboard is now complete.

You can now stop and continue using your keyboard or move on to the optional features, such as a dongle enclosure, magnetic dongle snapping to allow Bluetooth, and other quality-of-life improvements.
